[MUSIC]
>> Kyle: Time to move in to some
really brain bending stuff.
If you thought the stuff that
we went over was brain bending,
buckle up your seat belt.
Concurrency.
That's what we've been talking
about this entire workshop.
What was the poor man's definition for
what I meant by concurrency?
Basically, managing the flow control.
Managing all these things
that are happening and
responding to things in the proper order.
We know that Promises work when there's
a single request and a single response.
What happens when the source of
our information that's coming,
is actually a repeated stream
of information that's coming?
Can we wire Promises into an event stream,
for example?
Because frankly speaking,
if we really look at it, most of
the asynchronicity that's happening in
our programs is actually event oriented.
All of our UI is almost
entirely event oriented.
It's events coming from the server.
It's events coming from the user.
We have events everywhere.
Soon as you start trying to plug Promises
in you might start to see some issues.
Let me try to illustrate that for
a moment.
Let's say that I had
a button on my page and
I wanted to represent the click of
that button by way of a promise.
I already know I can construct
a promise like I'm doing on line 1.
And I can set up my click
handler inside of it.
I have button dot click.
And I'm doing some extra logic just to
illustrate that there's extra steps that
we might use,
I'm going to test its class name and if it
matches that regular expression FUBAR
then I'm going to resolve the Promise.
Otherwise I'm going to reject the Promise.
And then down somewhere
else in my program,
line 13 represents a different
place in my program,
I'm going to respond to that Promise by
printing out whatever was clicked on.
Now the spirit of this is that
every time I click on the button,
I'm going to get either that I printed
it out or if I clicked a button that,
I'm going to print out a className
if it matched FUBAR but
if I clicked a button that didn't
have that, nothing would happen.
That's the spirit of it.
Does anybody spot
a problem with this code?
What?
>> Speaker 2: It's only gonna fire once.
>> Kyle: Promises can
only be resolved once.
The very first time you click a button,
whichever button it is,
it's going to resolve or
reject the Promise.
And every time else when you click
the button, nothing's gonna happen.
Uh-oh, what do we do?
How do we use Promises, we've built
ourselves up to Promises and generators.
We've given ourselves several layers
of higher order abstractions.
But now we're faced with an extremely
common thing that's gonna happen in our
programs that is responding to events
repeated things that are happening and
all of sudden Promises seem to fall apart.
What do we do?
Well, one thing you might do is to invert.
You might say instead of
creating my Promise and
then my button handler inside
do it the other way around.
Make my button handler, click handler and
then create a Promise inside.
What's gonna happen here is I'm
gonna get a whole new Promise for
each event that's fired.
That sounds great.
Except, why?
Because once the vents already been fired,
then what's the purpose
of the Promise here.
You see what I'm doing?
I'm immediately resolving a Promise ,and
then immediately calling a dot then on it.
How much sense does that make?
There's something even deeper though,
because what we've really done when we
inverted, we made that little simple
trick where I inverted it and
I did one inside the other
instead of the other way around.
Now we have conflated our
separation of concerns.
In the previous code,
subtly I was able to set up
my source in one location and
have my response to it.
I was able to subscribe and
I have my source to it in a different
location of my application.
Those are two separate capabilities, but
when I invert, guess what's happened?
I have to set up the source and
the subscription all in the same spot.
I have conflated those two
responsibilities together.
And you gonna have to jump through a whole
bunch of hoops to get those Promises
out of your click handler.
Every time he fired if you need those
Promises to respond in other places
you're gonna have to save them off
into some shared closure variable or
some ridiculous thing.
And all of a sudden you're going to be
way back, right back at the beginning all
the same problems of weirdness and
hard to understand code.
Right off the bat we see that
Promises at least by themselves,
are not going to model well
in an event oriented world.
We're going to need something better.
Now you could observe that
actually that wasn't fundamentally
an asynchronous set of steps anyway.
And we could fall back to things that are
a little more familiar to us like a list
context where I put my event into
an array as I'm doing on 3 three and
then I call maps and reduces and filters.
You might go back to a synchronous
programming mindset and
say, who cares about the promise.
But we've still fundamentally
got an inverted system here,
where the response to the event has to be
conflated with the setup for the event.
We have producer and
consumer in the same spot.
And that's not what we want.
We need something to bridge the gap so
that we can separate those concerns.